{
  "magic": "E!vIA5L86J2I",
  "timestamp": "2025-06-10T01:08:37.723286+00:00",
  "repo": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "editorial",
      "description": "",
      "color": "07A2C9"
    },
    {
      "name": "Ready for PR",
      "description": "",
      "color": "02CE60"
    },
    {
      "name": "Ready to close",
      "description": "",
      "color": "5319e7"
    },
    {
      "name": "Needs review",
      "description": "",
      "color": "7A6C39"
    }
  ],
  "issues": [
    {
      "number": 1,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6ZXu1B",
      "title": "Draft name needs to conform to IETF pattern",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/1",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Draft name should be draft-ietf-mediaman-6838bis - this can wait until we have formally adopted the document.\r\n\r\n(Was surprised to see this come out without an -authorname- component)\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-08T12:58:54Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-11-05T16:40:09Z",
      "closedAt": "2024-11-05T16:40:09Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Fixed by publishing of draft-ietf-mediaman-6838bis\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2024-11-05T16:40:09Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-11-05T16:40:09Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 2,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6cEGrx",
      "title": "Incorporate -toplevel",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/2",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The content of [-toplevel ](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mediaman-toplevel/) needs to be incorporated in 6838bis.\r\nThe historical portions can probably be left in the published RFC, which 6838bis will obsolete.\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-28T12:43:34Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:16:46Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-03-18T10:16:46Z",
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 3,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6cEHiS",
      "title": "Incorporate -suffixes",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/3",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The content of [-suffixes ](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mediaman-suffixes/) needs to be incorporated into 6838bis.\r\nThe current text is deemed to represent WG consensus, but wordsmithing is expected.\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-28T12:45:05Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-06T22:41:02Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-06T22:41:02Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "bc-pi",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "As mentioned briefly at the 121 meeting, there are portions of the suffixes draft that should not be incorporated. \r\n\r\nThe [proceedings](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/121/proceedings) still say \"No minutes\" but the session recordings are available:\r\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aEgdzv7EsPk\r\nhttps://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-MEDIAMAN-20241105-1800\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2024-11-11T21:34:46Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-11-11T21:34:46Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Just to close the comment on minutes - minutes are now here: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/121/materials/minutes-121-mediaman-202411051800-01\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-17T01:44:32Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-17T01:44:32Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 4,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6cEIyw",
      "title": "Incorporate -standards-tree",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/4",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The content of [-standards-tree](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mediaman-standards-tree/) is deemed to represent rough consensus in the WG, and should be incorporated in 6838bis.\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-28T12:47:15Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:14:37Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-03-18T10:14:37Z",
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 5,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6cx12i",
      "title": "Cleanup for \"additional information\" in media type registration",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/5",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "From Paul Libbrecht:\r\n\r\nJust a reminder: if we update RFC 6838 then it would be cool to:\r\n\r\n*    remove \u201cMacintosh file type code(s)\u201d (which doesn\u2019t exist anymore since MacOSX)\r\n*    add \u201cWindows clipboard flavour\u201d and \u201cmacOS Universal Type Identifier\u201d among the additional information fields.\r\n\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2023-11-05T19:31:03Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:31:33Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-03-18T10:26:24Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "polx",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "@alvestrand : do you have a source of RFC-6838 I could make a suggested patch for?\r\nthanks in advance.\r\npaul",
          "createdAt": "2024-02-23T08:05:39Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-02-23T08:05:39Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "The RFC Editors page at https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838 seems to not list one. The RFC predates the universal presence of XML formats.\r\n\r\nThere's an XML format on the I-D page for the last-before-publication I-D: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-appsawg-media-type-regs/14/\r\n\r\nI think either Tony Hansen or John Klensin might have one too.\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2024-02-23T09:44:05Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-02-23T09:44:05Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "polx",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "OK. So here would be a patch and the resulting XML compared to [the last-before-publication I-D](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-appsawg-media-type-regs/14/):\r\n\r\nIn substance:\r\n- replace the suggestion to the MacOS file type by the suggestions for macOS UTIs and Windows clipboard flavor names\r\n- replace the literature entry of MacOS file type (which was 21 y old and whose URL is no longer available, an [archive fetch](https://web.archive.org/web/20080517021842/http://www.info.apple.com/kbnum/n55381) exists still) by an explanation of the macOS UTIs and windows clipboard flavors.\r\n\r\nIs this enough for an inclusion? \r\nShould this be more text-oriented to be included in a new RFC?\r\nOr should the RFC 6838 be made into a newer document, maybe together with the mediaman release?\r\n\r\nthanks in advance.\r\nPaul\r\n\r\n* [add-clipboard-flavor-names.patch](https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/procedures/files/14473152/add-clipboard-flavor-names.patch)\r\n* The resulting XML file is called `.txt` since GitHub considereds XML unsupported (LOL):  [draft-ietf-appsawg-media-type-regs-14.xml.txt](https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/procedures/files/14473159/draft-ietf-appsawg-media-type-regs-14.xml.txt)\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2024-03-03T13:52:34Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-03-03T13:55:29Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "polx",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Following the existing pull-requests, I added a pull-request against the current markdown source in the git repo to address the same changes.",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-02T21:13:05Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-02T21:13:05Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Fixed by #17 - new issues may be raised for the topics mentioned in the PR.\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:26:24Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:26:24Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "polx",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Thank you very much.\n\n> Discussion in Bangkok: Perfectly reasonable to do, worry about whether backfill can be done for older types.\n\nThe first step would be to take the official specs of the vendors and back-fill with the content of these.  I am happy to hear about process suggestions.",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:31:32Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:31:32Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 6,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6dIItg",
      "title": "Appeal procedure could be more crisp",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/6",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The appeal procedure is borrowed from 2026. It may not be the right procedure.\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-11-05T18:14:48Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-17T01:45:45Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-03-17T01:45:44Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "bc-pi",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Murray mentioned this on list https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/media-types/XXcfDsT_TSQTZ21pV1oNeLJ5YJw/ and I concur with the sentiment https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/media-types/dxJvDOM3IADlrSXhc8sVqGVQiS8/ ",
          "createdAt": "2024-11-11T21:25:21Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-11-11T21:25:21Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Duplicate of #10 ",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-17T01:45:44Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-17T01:45:44Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 7,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6dKMYk",
      "title": "Grandfathering requirements should apply to all unregistered media-types",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/7",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "CxRes",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Ready to close"
      ],
      "body": "I find that the text in paragraph 2 of Appendix A is only targeting unfaceted subtypes that should be registered as faceted. There are unregistered or improperly registered unfaceted subtypes that might need to re-registered as unfaceted. Such as media-types mentioned in https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/procedures/issues/6.\r\n\r\nThis text should therefore RECOMMEND that in all cases where the media-types are unregistered, missing a registration template or have unstructured templates, they should be re-registered if possible.",
      "createdAt": "2024-11-05T23:20:32Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:08:52Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I suspect the community format process might subsume the grandfathering text, as well as this under 'Standards Tree':\n\n> or in rare cases when registering a grandfathered (see {{grandfather}}) and/or otherwise incomplete registration is in the interest of the Internet community.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-06T23:18:13Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-06T23:18:13Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "See also #33.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T03:21:24Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T03:21:24Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "CxRes",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Am I correct in presuming this is the text under 4.1.1.1? Unfortunately, even beyond the list of media-types I mentioned in https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/procedures/issues/6, I have been uncovering more registrations that are not proper templates, but say, email dumps. \n\nIdeally, I feel the text (not necessarily in that section but somewhere in the document) of broader scope might be needed to allow for all missing/incorrect registrations, as and when discovered, to be fixed (unless you plan to subsume all such cases under \"community formats\"), which a more general grandfathering text could have served.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T14:17:26Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T14:17:26Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "So I don't think this is really about grandfathering; it's about how to maintain the registry contents.\n\nOne option would be to enable the designated expert(s) to act as custodians of the registry and make improvements along the lines you're suggesting, with appropriate transparency and community consultation. That seems to have worked well in other registries, and also seems to be the model IANA is using (based upon the e-mails you linked in that other issue).\n\nSome spec text about the expert role spelling this out would help.\n\nThe other option would be to require an RFC to update these entries. That's heavier weight, but might be required in some cases where the expert didn't feel that they had the authority to make a change.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-28T00:46:42Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-28T00:46:42Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "CxRes",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "I recognize the scope creep since I opened the original issue. Having an opinion about the options you present goes well beyond my pay grade. But if you do go the \"heavy weight\" route (and I realize this screams scope creep), I have two unrelated request:\n1. Consider tracking the history of entries, not every change, but where a spec has been updated or obsoleted. This came up with my conversations with Amanda in Bangkok.\n2. Consider mandating a structured format, say YAML, that at a first instance can be machine checked. I gather that Roy Fielding (from his old blog) has been upset about this for the longest time.\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-28T15:02:04Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-28T15:02:04Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "For your (1), I think that's a matter of IANA-wide tooling/policy, not something that we want to do per-registry.\n\nFor your (2), I suspect that's too high a bar -- the purpose of the registry is to assure that it reflects reality, and anything that is a barrier to entry hurts that.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-28T22:54:39Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-28T22:54:39Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 8,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6d-tmE",
      "title": "higher bar for IETF registrations than for external ones? ",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/8",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "bc-pi",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "please see the thread https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/media-types/Wlx2B1k_du8Ths2ojxL4jh7V7JM/ ",
      "createdAt": "2024-11-11T21:37:49Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T03:00:38Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-27T03:00:37Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Discussion in Bangkok:\nYes, this is by design (says Alexey as DE)\nWe may want a procedure for early registration - the IANABIS WG may be working on this.\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:30:49Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:30:49Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Decision in Bangkok: Yes, this is the current rule.\nNew issue: Should we have an early allocation procedure? (make a placeholder, and get Designated Expert review)? (this applies also to other organizations) (Relevant: RFC 7120)\nNew issue: Should we talk about what we expect from other standards organizations in maturity before they (allocate/register) names?\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:40:36Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:40:36Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Closing, as we now have other issues.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T03:00:37Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T03:00:37Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 9,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6fIvUG",
      "title": "can \"Person for further info\" be an IETF WG / mailing list?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/9",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "rohanmahy",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Needs review"
      ],
      "body": "Some IETF specs (ex: [RC9594](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9594.html) use an IETF WG name and mailing list for the Person and Email, but most do not (I saw one that referred IANA to the Editor's Addresses). I would like this document to either tell WGs explicitly \"DO THAT\" or \"DON'T DO THAT\" please.\r\n\r\nWGs come and go and hopefully live shorter lives than people, but IETF mailing lists can last a pretty long time.",
      "createdAt": "2024-11-18T20:43:54Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:08:22Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Personally, I'm skeptical of MLs as change controllers.\r\nI believe the IESG (or successor bodies) will live longer than most WGs.\r\nMailing lists are frequently closed when the WG is gone and the maintainer gets tired of dealing with the spam.\r\nAlso, mailing lists have no built-in decision procedure - how can you tell if a mailing list with 100+ mostly silent members agree on something?",
          "createdAt": "2024-11-18T22:26:05Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-11-18T22:26:05Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "martinthomson",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "This isn't about change controllers.  There are three relevant fields in the template:\r\n\r\n*   Person and email address to contact for further information:\r\n*   Author:  \r\n*   Change controller: \r\n\r\nRecent registrations that I've created use \"IETF\" for the last and the document authors for the first two.  Rohan is interested in whether the WG mailing list is a better place to point people for the first (I think).  I'd also ask about the second for WG products.",
          "createdAt": "2024-11-18T22:43:36Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-11-18T22:43:36Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "rohanmahy",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Yes, as Martin said I am referring to the first \"Person & email address to\r\ncontact for further information:\"\r\nthanks,\r\n-rohan\r\n\r\n\r\nOn Mon, Nov 18, 2024, 14:43 Martin Thomson ***@***.***> wrote:\r\n\r\n> This isn't about change controllers. There are three relevant fields in\r\n> the template:\r\n>\r\n>    - Person and email address to contact for further information:\r\n>    - Author:\r\n>    - Change controller:\r\n>\r\n> Recent registrations that I've created use \"IETF\" for the last and the\r\n> document authors for the first two. Rohan is interested in whether the WG\r\n> mailing list is a better place to point people for the first (I think). I'd\r\n> also ask about the second for WG products.\r\n>\r\n> \u2014\r\n> Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub\r\n> <https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/9#issuecomment-2484287667>,\r\n> or unsubscribe\r\n> <https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/AADSQPSLILTZSPKQPVI4TET2BJUS3AVCNFSM6AAAAABSAREKHCVHI2DSMVQWIX3LMV43OSLTON2WKQ3PNVWWK3TUHMZDIOBUGI4DONRWG4>\r\n> .\r\n> You are receiving this because you authored the thread.Message ID:\r\n> ***@***.***>\r\n>\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2024-11-19T02:13:54Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-11-19T02:13:54Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "OK, changed the title. In that case, I think an IETF (or other org's) mailing list makes sense; it would be the change controller's responsibility to update the field when a mailing list shuts down.\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2024-11-19T09:45:59Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-11-19T09:45:59Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "rohanmahy",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "@mnot as the author do you want to weigh in on this? If you are amenable, I'll send you a short PR. Maybe instead of \"Person and email address to contact for further information\", it would be clearer: \"Contact name and email address for further information\". Then the text could explain that Contact name is an IETF/IRTF mailing list if the work is a product of the IETF, or the name/email of a human person otherwise?\r\n\r\nAnd you might as well give your views about the \"Author\" field as well.",
          "createdAt": "2024-12-10T23:09:07Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-12-10T23:09:07Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I think it's reasonable, but keeping it up to date requires action, and it's often not clear who the action holder is. Somewhat related, I'd like to do some work on clarifying what the responsibilities and powers of a designated expert are.",
          "createdAt": "2025-01-21T02:50:10Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-01-21T02:50:10Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Discussion in Bangkok:\nWGs don't last forever, so if we accept that, we need a procedure to update the pointer when they are defunct.\n(The same applies to people, but on a longer timescale)\nShould we have a fallback pointer? A procedure to get the fallback, depending on change controller?\nFallback pointer may be change controller pointer.\nResolution: Continue discussion in issue.\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:58:52Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:59:24Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Formally, I think the change controller needs to be responsible for updating the \"Person to contact for further info\".\nI don't like encumbering the DE with too much proactive responsibility - we might ask IANABIS whether they should maintain a database of contact addresses and take the responsibility of flushing out contacts that don't work any more.\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-26T13:13:41Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-26T13:13:41Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "polx",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Assuming the media-types mailing-list is still alive, isn't the procedure used in the media-type declaration (but with a different template) to post an actualization of the contact-addresses at the media-types mailing-list then handling by directors the right method?\n\nThe same \"authority inspection\" worries are concerned here, or? And making it transparent is publicly important for sure.",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-30T08:08:16Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-30T08:08:16Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "This (update procedure) seems to be a more generic question, pertaining to section 6.1 \"change procedures\". I filed #21 to track that question.\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-04-01T11:54:26Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-04-01T11:54:26Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I'm not convinced that a fallback pointer will be any more reliable, and it adds complexity to the procedure and the registry. Also, all existing entries won't have a fallback, limiting the utility of this approach for some time and necessitating a fallback procedure for the absence of a fallback. \n\nI'd suggest that either: \n\n1. The expert be given explicit power to chase up unresponsive contacts and update using reasonable measures, with a fallback to the IESG if there's a dispute of their decision.\n2. We close this issue without action; it's working well enough.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:41:02Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:41:02Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Note also that the change section already has:\n\n> The IESG may reassign responsibility for a media type. The most common case of this will be to enable changes to be made to types where the author of the registration has died, fallen out of contact, or is otherwise unable to make changes that are important to the community.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:55:21Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:55:21Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Regarding the _original_ issue here, the standards tree section already says:\n\n> The change controller of a media type registered in the standards tree is assumed to be the standards-related organization itself.\n\nWe could refine that with something like:\n\n> In the case of IETF standards, the change controller is normally the IESG.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:58:34Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:58:34Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "polx",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "I am missing the transparency of the operation when the IESG or the experts change reassign. It is probably in some by-laws of the IESG but including that at least the conclusion of a reassignment is visible on the ietf-types mailing-list would help trust, I think. One could adapt the current sentence for this, I think.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T06:23:36Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T06:23:36Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Experts are listed in the registry, e.g., https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml\n\nIf we want to have norms/rules for when/how they're announced, I think that should be done in IANABIS, not as a one-off here.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T06:26:25Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T06:26:25Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "polx",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "I am not making in question the list of experts. I proposing adjust the sentence so that a reassignment of responsibility for a media-type is an action that is transparently relayed to some public place such as the mailing-list.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T06:31:49Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T06:31:49Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I understand. I stand by my comment.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T06:32:52Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T06:32:52Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 10,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6feNsv",
      "title": "What's the correct appeals procedure for DE decisions?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/10",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Ready to close"
      ],
      "body": "From Murray Kucherawy (mailing list Nov 8):\r\n\r\nRFC 6838 Section 5.3 creates an appeal process by referencing RFC 2026 Section 6.5.4 and saying that appeals go to the IESG.  That specific part of RFC 2026 suggest the appeal process being established appears to me to boil down to:\r\n\r\n* the appeal goes to the IESG, and there's no escalation available past that\r\n* the appeal must provide adequate detail\r\n* the appeal must be filed within two months of the DE's decision\r\n* the IESG has discretion to process the appeal however it wants\r\n* the IESG has to complete its review and deliver its decision in a reasonable amount of time\r\n\r\n...or at least that's how I read it.  Maybe I'm being too pedantic but I also note that RFC 2026 Section 6.5.4 is subordinate to Section 6.5, which says that it (and its subsections) apply to decisions that are made as part of the standards process using consensus development, and decisions of a DE do not meet that definition.  It doesn't look to me like 6.5.4 was meant to be referenced or incorporated in this way.\r\n\r\nI suggest this is something the WG should review and decide whether it wants to keep this as-is or perhaps say something more explicit and crisp.\r\n\r\n",
      "createdAt": "2024-11-20T11:12:17Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:07:46Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Notes:\r\n- So far we have no appeals (AFAIK), so we don't know if the process works.\r\n- I believe the choice to point to 6.5.4 directly was deliberately done as \"we are reusing the appeals process for a different purpose than what it was originally written for\"\r\n- 6.5.4 doesn't specify the appeals chain; I believe the idea was that the response to an appeal under 6.5.4 would be an IESG action, which could then be appealed using the appeals chain in 6.5.2.\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2024-11-20T11:16:49Z",
          "updatedAt": "2024-11-20T11:16:49Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "This may be an IANABIS problem.\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T11:02:29Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T11:02:29Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Given that we haven't had any appeals yet and this appears to be workable at least on the face of it, close with no action?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:45:05Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:45:05Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 13,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6m7VQo",
      "title": "Acknowledgements",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/13",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "editorial"
      ],
      "body": "Including authors of incorporated drafts",
      "createdAt": "2025-01-21T02:45:17Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-04T06:36:03Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 15,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6oxL9g",
      "title": "You might consider adding some override here, incase the existing change controller is not responsive.",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/15",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Ready to close"
      ],
      "body": "              You might consider adding some override here, incase the existing change controller is not responsive.\r\n\r\n_Originally posted by @OR13 in https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/14#discussion_r1941375260_\r\n            ",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-04T23:01:57Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:04:12Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Is this #9?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:45:37Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:45:37Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Based on the side discussion in #9, my inclination is to close this with no action -- we already have procedures to recover from uncontactable folks, and collecting more information is likely to just increase the amount of bad information we have...",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T03:02:58Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T03:02:58Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 16,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6oxMJd",
      "title": "If the intention is to discourage oid/nnnnn, this text could be clearer.",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/16",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "              If the intention is to discourage oid/nnnnn, this text could be clearer.\r\n\r\nFor example: Do not attempt to register top levels wheihc are pointers ....\r\n\r\n_Originally posted by @OR13 in https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/12#discussion_r1941490850_\r\n            ",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-04T23:02:33Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:12:59Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-21T04:12:59Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "The \"negative criteria\" section was added after a discussion on the list where someone suggested a top-level type that would register by implication some huge number of other entities (I think it was, among other things, going to have a separate media type for integers).\n\nWe concluded that such a thing would be a Bad Idea, and tried to find some way of incorporating that into the RFC. The \"negative criteria\" were the result.\n\nWe could reformulate it in such a way that either the intro says \"the registration process SHOULD/MUST reject attempts to register top level types that satisfies the following criteria\", or that each criterion starts off with \"You SHOULD NOT attempt to register .....\"\n\nI think choosing between these forms is editor's privillege.\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-17T01:40:19Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-17T01:40:19Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "See also #25.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:05:54Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:05:54Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 18,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6s4U9p",
      "title": "Update Media Type registry to clearer indicate which media types do have RTP payload formats",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/18",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "gloinul",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "With the approval and imminent publication of https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-payload-registry/ there no longer separate registry for which media types are RTP payload formats. Although if going through the media types registrations themselves one can determine if they represent RTP payload formats. Please note that some are both file formats and RTP payload formats. Thus, I would request that when updating the media type procedures and registry one should consider some clarifications to help identify media types that have RTP payload formats.\n\n1. I would suggest that one add a column in the media types registry for each entry to indicate those that have RTP payload formats. \n2. Secondly there is the question if one like to convert the implicit indicator in the encoding information, that some but not all framed encodings are RTP, and rather have an explicit field in the registration template to say: Media Type has an RTP payload format. ",
      "createdAt": "2025-03-06T13:39:56Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-04T23:20:37Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "It's not scalable to add application-specific fields to the registry. Reasonable alternatives include:\n\n1. using the 'general comments' field\n2. creating a separate registry",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:30:35Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:30:35Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "gloinul",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "@mnot if this was a new usage I would fully agree with what you write. The issue is that the Media Types registry contains more than a hundred media types that are RTP payload formats and this is about handling an existing legacy in an efficient way. \n\nRegarding 2) that have been tried and it fails for the reason that the media types registry is the name space. The seperate registry was never the key one and it was repetealy missed to add the name into this secondary registry. Thus, having a separate registry was tried for a long time and it failed. This is not the first time I wished that the community had come to the conclusion more than 20 years ago that RTP payload types should have its own registry and name space for identifying them, rather than using the media types registry. \n\nRegarding 1) we it would be good to have something that is actually very explicitly, and possible to select on when extracting entries form the registry. Because we have seen IETF external bodies attempting to reference a table of RTP payload formats. And as I noted above this is a significant amount of the registry entries. ",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T07:04:49Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T07:04:49Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Perhaps that should have been explicitly agreed to before closing the other registry.\n\nCurrently, there is _no_ other information that's limited to a specific subset of media types in the registry or in the registration template. Requiring that any new information captured be potentially applicable to all media types is a very reasonable and defensible position to take, with considerable precedence in the IETF. The fact that a particular community has got itself into an inconvenient position doesn't seem like a good reason to violate that principle.\n\n\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-23T00:29:57Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-23T00:29:57Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "gloinul",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "At IETF 122 we did discuss these issues in Mediaman meeting, and a question that came up is if there are other than RTP payload formats that uses Encoding: framed if that can be relied on as the primary indicator of RTP payload formats. \n\nI do wonder from usage of the Media Types registry if the RTP payload formats being there and not being clearly marked actually make the registry harder to use. I think a lot depends on what perspective one has when one comes to the registry itself. Application media type has a lot of file format, the RTP payload formats are few in that category, but if you look at video the majority of standards tree types are RTP payload formats, there are a couple of media bucket file formats. So if one go there and look for what is available to store video one would have to sift through to find the relevant. But, if one assume that one primarily goes to the registry to look up the reference for a seen media type then what is in the registry is all that is needed.\n\n@alvestrand what do you say as you where closer to the usages that wanted to know what RTP Payload formats that exists?\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-04T07:12:56Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-04T07:12:56Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "To my mind, the \"is RTP\" information is not application specific, it's RTP specific. RTP formats is a field of use, not an application.\n\nBut - RTP doesn't really fit well with the other \"encoding\" descriptions like \"binary\", \"8bit\" or \"7bit\" since these presume the idea of a byte stream representation (aka \"file\").\n\nSo using \"encoding: frames\" (and making certain to specify that the \"encoding\" field is multivalued, and that the description of the possible values of the \"encoding\" field is right) seems like a good way to accomplish the purpose without bending things too much.\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-04T23:20:37Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-04T23:20:37Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 19,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6uhdt7",
      "title": "Should the bucket format parameters from RFC 6381 be noted as something to consider?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/19",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "gloinul",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6381/ defines parameters that are used to describe further properties of like codec capabilities of what is included in file formats that are so called bucket types, like the ISO based media file formats. \n\nShould there be a reference to these parameters and the consideration in the media type registry to ensure that this aspect is not forgotten. I can see that this could be either part of the relevant media top levels that commonly have these, or possibly under the parameter encoding section. \n\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:41:39Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:55:49Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "gloinul",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "I would also note that RFC 8088 do comment some other parameters that RTP payload format has used with the same definition over multiple media types used to register RTP payload format. I don't know if these needs to be noted or referenced that they exist to help registrants to include them if applicable.  ",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:55:48Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:55:48Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 20,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6uiD2p",
      "title": "Instructions for other SDOs on how to maintain registrations",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/20",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The procedures for IANA to check IETF work on updating specs is working reasonably well.\nThere are no corresponding procedures for other SDOs. They should be advised that they need to have one.\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-03-18T11:25:08Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:50:02Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "What should be said?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:50:01Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:50:01Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 21,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6wnwnN",
      "title": "More detailed change procedures?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/21",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Ready to close"
      ],
      "body": "Section 6.1 \"Change procedures\" is pretty short.\nIn particular, it doesn't say much about:\n- Who can make changes (presumably \"change controller\")\n- How one can make changes if change controller is unavailable or unresponsive\n- When a change controller is supposed to make changes (for instance \"if a listed contact point changes\"?)\n\nMore text may be needed.\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-04-01T11:53:52Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-09T13:29:15Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "> Who can make changes (presumably \"change controller\")\n\nText already says: \"Once a media type has been published by the IANA, the change controller may request a change to its definition.\"\n\n> How one can make changes if change controller is unavailable or unresponsive\n\nThis seems to be discussed in #9 (although arguably off-topic)\n\n> When a change controller is supposed to make changes (for instance \"if a listed contact point changes\"?)\n\nCurrently, we put guardrails on what a change can request (e.g., no deletion) and require expert review for changes to assure sanity. Is that adequate?\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:56:30Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:56:30Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I think this can be closed with no action, unless someone has a specific suggestion.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T03:05:22Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T03:05:22Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "7439henry",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "The RTP Payload Format for Haptics currently under development in AVTCORE is updating the Haptic media type defined in RFC 9695. We need an update since this document introduces optional parameters to enable extended functionality while maintaining backward compatibility. Before moving on to the next step (AD and IESG), we want to ensure that the current draft does not have any issues with the HMPG update.",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-09T13:29:14Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-09T13:29:14Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 22,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc6xforO",
      "title": "change media-types@iana.org to media-types@ietf.org",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/22",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "anewton1998",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "6838 lists media-types@iana.org as the email to send registrations. However, this is just a forwarder to media-types@ietf.org. I suggest skipping the forwarder and changing the email address in 6838bis to media-types@ietf.org.\n\nAlso, it might be helpful to have an informative reference to the [list archive](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/media-types/).",
      "createdAt": "2025-04-07T19:56:37Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:02:47Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-21T04:02:47Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "We might want to ask IANABIS to formulate a general policy on IETF-related review list addresses, if we don't have one.\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-04-07T21:24:11Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-04-11T04:43:10Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Sent off a quick note today. https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/ianabis/IneNOsZleuL7pnJ-oeSOf09_4D4/\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-04-11T04:43:36Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-04-11T04:43:36Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 23,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc61c7Q3",
      "title": "Community format change controller",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/23",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Standards tree says:\n\n> The \"owner\" of a media type registered in the standards tree is assumed to be the standards-related organization itself.\n\nWhat should it be for community formats?",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-06T23:22:32Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-07T08:59:50Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Should we require the community to name a representative or representative organization?\nI would assume that the normal case is change controller = registrant.\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-07T08:59:15Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-07T08:59:49Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 24,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc61dBjD",
      "title": "Should coordination with previous registrar of +-suffixed types be required?",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/24",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "bc-pi",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "It is extremely frustrating and belittling to feel that perfectly reasonable input is being ignored. \n\n> This is text that I was explicitly objecting to at the previous in-person meeting and that I was under the impression that the author of this PR agreed as did at least one of the DEs.\n\n_Originally posted by @bc-pi in https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/14#discussion_r2000685271_\n\n![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/df706dda-2b9e-454c-93fa-cca1639b5f4b)\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-06T23:34:54Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-07T18:06:45Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "The chairs directed the editors to incorporate the current text from -suffixes without changes to the semantics.\nWe have noted that this is a point on which there is a need for further discussion before declaring consensus.\nI didn't find the previous issue filed on the subject, so I changed the subject of this one, and will follow up.\n\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-07T08:28:52Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-07T08:28:52Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "bc-pi",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "> The chairs directed the editors to incorporate the current text from -suffixes without changes to the semantics.\n\nWas that before or after the WG meeting in Vancouver? \n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-07T18:06:43Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-07T18:06:43Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 25,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc61dk1n",
      "title": "Negative criteria repetitiveness",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/25",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "editorial"
      ],
      "body": "Negative criteria says roughly the same thing four times:\n\n* A top-level type is not a pointer into another registration space that offers duplicate registrations for existing media types. Example: a top-level type of 'oid', leading to types of the form oid/nnnnn, where nnn is an OID (Object Identifier) designating a specific media format,\n\n* A top-level type MUST NOT be defined for the mapping of other protocol elements to media types. For example, while there may be some merit to a mapping from media types to URIs, e.g. in the context of RDF (Resource Description Framework), there is very limited merit in a reverse mapping, and even less merit in creating a top-level type for such a mapping. The same applies to other protocol elements such as file extensions or URI schemes. The recommended solution in case a mapping is needed is to choose a single type/subtype and put the additional information in an appropriately named parameter. As an example, information on a file extension '.dcat' can be encoded as 'application/octet-string; filename=foo.dcat'.\n\n* Media types are not a general type system. A top-level type MUST NOT be defined if its main or only purpose is to map other type systems, e.g. in programming languages or ontologies.\n\n* A new top-level type SHOULD NOT generate aliases for existing widely used types or subtypes.\n\nThere has to be a more efficient and friendly way to convey this; using bullet points implies that they're four different things, and they're not.",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-07T01:36:18Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:12:59Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-21T04:12:59Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "I believe this text was prompted by four different attempted registrations that were a Bad Idea..... we may want to wordsmith this to a single \"don't ask for a top level type when it's not appropriate\" and have the list of inappropriate registrations as examples.\n\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-07T08:19:58Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-07T08:19:58Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 26,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc61dlAe",
      "title": "use of 2119 terms",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/26",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Needs review"
      ],
      "body": "The spec uses MUST/MAY/SHOULD throughout to indicate registration requirements, not interoperability requirements.",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-07T01:36:56Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:05:12Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "In procedural documents like this, it seems that \"interoperability\" is the abillity for the parties to get their job done by conforming to procedure - \"interoperability\" between registrar and registry in this case.\n\nI don't want to try to come up with an alternative terminology just because it isn't a computer protocol.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-15T19:57:40Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-15T19:57:40Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "That's not my understanding of current IETF usage. We should clarify with the IESG.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-18T06:29:18Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-18T06:29:18Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "It is consistent with 2119, which uses MUST to refer to its own requirements. What later guidance has been issued?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-18T17:04:10Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-18T17:04:10Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Timely:\n  https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/statement-iesg-statement-on-clarifying-the-use-of-bcp-14-key-words/\n\nI read that as discouraging such use, but I can see an argument that it doesn't explicitly address this case.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-18T22:10:14Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-18T22:10:14Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 27,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc61oLNb",
      "title": "Incorporate 'font' top-level type",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/27",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "... from RFC 8081.",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-07T21:26:08Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-09T08:37:21Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-09T08:37:20Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "svgeesus",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "So would that contain all of RFC 8081, thus obsoleting it, or is it just a mention in a list of top level types?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-07T21:47:33Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-07T21:47:33Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "We can't obsolete 8081 because it contains the subtype registrations, so I suspect it would be a short section and then a reference to 8081 for details.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-07T21:55:23Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-07T21:55:23Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "I don't think the registration procedure should attempt to be a complete listing of the registry (for obvious reasons - the registry is going to expand over time, the procedure can't reflect the future).\n\n8081 is already referenced in [RFC 9694's history section](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9694.html#section-3). I don't see a good argument for treating it more specially than that. (PR #12 noted that it omitted the history section, and made a note about whether or not we should change that, but we don't have an open issue for that.)",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-08T05:51:38Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-08T05:54:08Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Well, we could omit _all_ top-level type descriptions from this document...",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-08T06:01:18Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-08T06:01:18Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "... and say \"these are registered by 6838-no-bis? Works for me :-)\n(unless we find that the old registrations are incomplete and need to be modified, in which case there needs to be an \"updates to existing registrations\" section ... the registration rules say that they need to be defined by a standards-track document, which is satisfied by 6838 or 6838bis as the WG wills it.)\n\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-08T06:09:36Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-08T06:09:36Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "svgeesus",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "> 8081 is already referenced in [RFC 9694's history section](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9694.html#section-3). I don't see a good argument for treating it more specially than that.\n\nI do.\n\nThe existing 8081 reference merely uses it as an _example_ on how to add a new top-level type.\n\nAs a currently-existing top-level type, though, `font/` (and `model/`) should be listed the same as the other top-level types",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-08T21:45:10Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-08T21:47:32Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Hmm. I think we could remove the top-level type definitions _if_ there were a registry specifically for them, but there's not. Thoughts?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-08T22:03:19Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-08T22:03:19Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Well, https://www.iana.org/assignments/top-level-media-types/top-level-media-types.xhtml looks awfully like the registry created by 9694, so I guess we have one...\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-09T05:49:12Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-09T05:49:12Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "Aha! I didn't see that linked from the media types registry...",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-09T05:58:14Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-09T05:58:14Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I think someone would need to go through and verify that none of the text regarding these in 6838 was unique.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-09T07:08:35Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-09T07:08:35Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Issue #29 created. With that, I think we can close this issue as \"no action needed\" (on the assumption that -bis won't have a list of top level types with descriptions in it).\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-09T08:37:20Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-09T08:37:20Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 28,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc611lyU",
      "title": "Applicability statements",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/28",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "> It is expected that applicability statements for particular applications will be published from time to time in the IETF, recommending implementation of, and support for, media types that have proven particularly useful in those contexts.\n\nReally?",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-09T04:20:19Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-20T00:35:00Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-20T00:35:00Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Much has been expected of applicability statements, but little has been done about them....\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-15T19:58:27Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-15T19:58:27Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I'm leaning towards just removing this.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-18T22:30:46Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-18T22:30:46Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 29,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc614UYP",
      "title": "Review and maybe delete old top level type descriptions",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/29",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "alvestrand",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Needs review"
      ],
      "body": "The old top level descriptions (text, application and so on) are referenced in the IANA registry at https://www.iana.org/assignments/top-level-media-types/top-level-media-types.xhtml as being defined in RFC 2026.\n\nTheir description is copied in the text of RFC 6838, and so far in 6838bis.\n\nIt would make for a shorter document if we could delete them and just say that 2026 is the normative reference for them, but before doing that, we need to verify that there are no changes to the description between 2026 and 6838 that we want to make normative.\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-09T08:36:06Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:05:26Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "I had a fairly quick look through them all and am comfortable removing this text, which is largely duplicative.\n\nHowever, we should make it more discoverable, by:\n- Linking to the top-level types registry both in the draft and in the subtypes registry\n- Specifying section numbers in the top-level types registry",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-18T05:47:09Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-18T05:47:09Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "PTAL at #36.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T02:53:08Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T02:53:08Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 31,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc63TbNd",
      "title": "Standards tree duplicates requirements and text",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/31",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The 'standards tree' section outlines requirements about publication and also specifies process for handling these registrations. Both of these are covered in other sections.\n\nShould we:\n\n1.  move all standards-tree requirements under the standards tree section (possibly removing duplicative text and requirements elsewhere), or\n2. move these things out of the standards tree section into the requirements and process sections (possibly with appropriate references)?\n\nI'm leaning towards (2).",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-20T00:58:35Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:20:32Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-21T04:20:32Z",
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 32,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc63TbtH",
      "title": "Vendor tree for community formats",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/32",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "> Note that industry consortia as well as non-commercial entities that do not qualify as recognized standards-related organizations can register media types in the vendor tree.\n\nCan this be removed now that we have the community formats process?",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-20T01:00:04Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-21T04:20:31Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-21T04:20:31Z",
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 33,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc63g5oX",
      "title": "Community formats and grandfathering",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/33",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Needs review"
      ],
      "body": "Does the community format process remove the need for the grandfathering text?",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-21T04:26:04Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:05:41Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 38,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc64Upcv",
      "title": "Early Allocation",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/38",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Ready to close"
      ],
      "body": "Should we have an early allocation procedure? (make a placeholder, and get Designated Expert review)? (this applies also to other organizations) (Relevant: RFC 7120)\n\n(From #8)",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-27T02:59:57Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:06:24Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "brentzundel",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "So, an early allocation procedure would enable specifications under development to set a placeholder for media types they intend to register once the specifications are finished?",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-04T17:36:10Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-04T17:36:10Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Seems that we had one. https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6838#section-5.2.1\nWas it ever used? Do we need to change it?\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-05T08:17:27Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-05T08:17:27Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "brentzundel",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Oh yeah, I remember reading that once.\nThe existing text works for me, though I don't know if it has ever been used.",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-06T15:57:59Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T15:57:59Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "It seems like this can be closed with no action, then.",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-06T20:06:23Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:06:23Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 40,
      "id": "I_kwDOMdBaOc64e0VM",
      "title": "Update The 'haptics' Top-Level Media Type(RFC9695)",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/40",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "7439henry",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "Ready to close"
      ],
      "body": "\n\nThe RTP Payload Format for Haptics currently under development in AVTCORE is updating the Haptic media type defined in RFC 9695. We need an update since this document introduces optional parameters to enable extended functionality while maintaining backward compatibility. Before moving on to the next step (AD and IESG), we want to ensure that the current draft does not have any issues with the HMPG update.",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-27T20:15:29Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-09T21:26:51Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-09T21:26:51Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "This doesn't seem like it's actionable for this group.",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-06T20:09:38Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:10:09Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "7439henry",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Could you elaborate on this?\n\nI had a discussion with Harald, and he mentioned that we can discuss this at the next IETF meeting. The WGLC in AVTCORE is almost complete, and we are currently waiting for input from the Mediaman group. You can find the details below.\n\n\n\n\nI expect the agenda for Madrid to be working through the issues list on 6838bis.\nYou might want to formulate your input as a comment on https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/21\nHarald\n\n**On 5/14/25 08:45, Marius Kleidl wrote:\nHello Harald,\n\nthank you, that all makes sense. Would you be able to reserve a short slot for this topic for the next mediaman session at IETF 123?\n\nBest regards\nMarius**\n\nOn Tue, May 13, 2025 at 11:42\u202fAM Harald Alvestrand <[harald@alvestrand.no](mailto:harald@alvestrand.no)> wrote:\nIt would seem natural to have this as a subdiscussion point under the \nheading of \"update procedures\". It seems to me that the actual \nparameters and so on are an AVTCORE topic, but the process for updating \na registration from RFC 9695 should be a MEDIAMAN topic.\n\nMakes sense?\n\nHarald\n\n**On 5/13/25 09:27, Marius Kleidl wrote:\n> Dear Harald, dear A.J.,\n> \n> RFC 9695 is a product of the mediaman WG and introduced the haptics top- \n> level media type alongside side three subtypes, including haptics/hmpg. \n> In the avtcore WG, we have a draft that specifies additional, optional \n> parameters for the haptics/hmpg subtype. In our opinion, it makes sense \n> to mark this draft as an update to RFC 9695, but would like to get your \n> perspective as mediaman chairs on this as well. Does that update seem \n> good to you? Should that draft be discussed/presented at the next IETF \n> meeting?\n> \n> Any input is welcome!\n> \n> Best regards,\n> Marius Kleidl\n> AVTCORE Co-Chair\n> \n> On Fri, Apr 25, 2025 at 9:08\u202fPM Hyunsik Yang \n> <Hyunsik.Yang=[40InterDigital.com@dmarc.ietf.org](mailto:40InterDigital.com@dmarc.ietf.org) \n> <mailto:[40InterDigital.com@dmarc.ietf.org](mailto:40InterDigital.com@dmarc.ietf.org)>> wrote:\n>** \n>     Dear Mediaman WG experts,____\n> \n>     __ __\n> \n>     As a co-author of the \"RTP Payload for Haptics\" draft in the AVTCORE\n>     Working Group, I would like to share with you our plan to update the\n>     ' haptics/hmpg' subtype registration made in RFC 9695, to add\n>     optional parameters. As you may know, the original registration in\n>     RFC 9695 did not include any required or optional parameters. ____\n> \n>     __ __\n> \n>     Therefore, we think that \u201cRTP Payload for Haptics\u201d should be marked\n>     as an update to RFC9695.____\n> \n>     __ __\n> \n>     Here is the link to the draft: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/\n>     html/draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-haptics <https://datatracker.ietf.org/\n>     doc/html/draft-ietf-avtcore-rtp-haptics>____\n> \n>     At this stage, this draft is in WGLC. Before we move forward, we\n>     would like to ask the members of MEDIAMAN if updating RFC9695 is the\n>     right thing to do, and if there are any concerns regarding the\n>     update of the 'hmpg' subtype.____\n> \n>     Thank you very much for your time and consideration.____\n> \n>     __ __\n> \n>     Best regards,____\n> \n> \n>     Hyunsik Yang, on behalf of the co-authors.____\n> \n>     __ __\n>\n\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-06T20:39:11Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T20:39:11Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "It may well be that it's good to discuss it with the WG, but it isn't an issue against this specification, as far as I can see. Harald noted that it might serve as input to discussion in #21, but not that it's a distinct issue.",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-07T22:25:31Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-07T22:25:31Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "7439henry",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "I see your point. I will update this issue in section #21 .\nWhile the WGLC process in AVTCORE has been completed, we are currently awaiting resolution of media type update issue before proceeding to the next stage.\nthanks.",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-09T13:18:37Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-09T13:18:37Z"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "pulls": [
    {
      "number": 11,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6IbLhs",
      "title": "Standards tree",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/11",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-01-21T02:26:32Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:14:36Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "b0367b519410675ba19be909936bc0f753c9945e",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "standards-tree",
      "headRefOid": "6c6bfe3d59817757419d219dd702da1eb9f629d8",
      "closedAt": "2025-03-18T10:14:36Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-03-18T10:14:36Z",
      "mergedBy": "alvestrand",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "e4208029e3e12435cf3fd1dcb1550e15b1adf21b"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6alCCk",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6c6bfe3"
          },
          "author": "OR13",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-04T16:21:13Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T16:21:13Z",
          "comments": []
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6cTPbm",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "6c6bfe3"
          },
          "author": "aj-stein",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-18T02:25:57Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-18T02:25:57Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 12,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6IbOoO",
      "title": "Add toplevel",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/12",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "- omitted IANA instructions as it appears they'll be published in a separate RFC\r\n- omitted history and introduction; should discuss whether they are necessary and how to incorporate if so",
      "createdAt": "2025-01-21T02:43:22Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:17:18Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "b0367b519410675ba19be909936bc0f753c9945e",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "toplevel",
      "headRefOid": "88f567546d48091ab293590fddc8fa12c79d896e",
      "closedAt": "2025-03-18T10:16:45Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-03-18T10:16:45Z",
      "mergedBy": "alvestrand",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "dd68688206486b4e0291e60e9aceb2d1b6b294d8"
      },
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "After discussion in Bangkok",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:17:17Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:17:17Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6ak-VG",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "978f08a"
          },
          "author": "OR13",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-04T16:15:25Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T16:15:26Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 37,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\n* Top-level types can help humans with understanding and debugging. Therefore, evaluating how a new top-level type helps humans understand types may be crucial.\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-02-04T16:15:25Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T16:15:26Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6ak_w9",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "978f08a"
          },
          "author": "OR13",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-04T16:17:42Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T16:17:42Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 47,
              "body": "If the intention is to discourage oid/nnnnn, this text could be clearer.\r\n\r\nFor example: Do not attempt to register top levels which are pointers ....",
              "createdAt": "2025-02-04T16:17:42Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:16:20Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6alAYD",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "978f08a"
          },
          "author": "OR13",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-04T16:18:36Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T16:18:37Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 49,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\n* A top-level type MUST NOT be defined for the mapping of other protocol elements to media types. For example, while there may be some merit to a mapping from media types to URIs, e.g. in the context of RDF (Resource Description Framework), there is very limited merit in a reverse mapping, and even less merit in creating a top-level type for such a mapping. The same applies to other protocol elements such as file extensions or URI schemes. The recommended solution in case a mapping is needed is to choose a single type/subtype and put the additional information in an appropriately named parameter. As an example, information on a file extension '.dcat' can be encoded as 'application/octet-string; filename=foo.dcat'.\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-02-04T16:18:36Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T16:18:37Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6alAx8",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "978f08a"
          },
          "author": "OR13",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-04T16:19:13Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T16:19:13Z",
          "comments": []
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6cTPJm",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "88f5675"
          },
          "author": "aj-stein",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-18T02:24:33Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-18T02:24:33Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 14,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6J7NIJ",
      "title": "Rough in structured suffixes",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/14",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "from draft-ietf-mediaman-suffixes-08",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-04T01:42:17Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-06T22:41:07Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "e2bd713adeab499df3c002ce91fec97d6226fd31",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "suffixes",
      "headRefOid": "60d80278e9ee982aebf8687d2b747a88a8c62c51",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-06T22:41:01Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-05-06T22:41:01Z",
      "mergedBy": "mnot",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "f94cff351c7592d8765b2cff9eefd1b80794ca1b"
      },
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Bangkok: Hold for more discussion online\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:20:56Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:20:56Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6aeHIn",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "msporny",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "LGTM as the Editor of the structured suffixes WG draft, thanks for merging in the structured suffixes text into 6838bis, @mnot.\r\n\r\nI presume this ends my work on structured suffixes and the hand off to you is complete. Let me know if that's not true.",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-04T02:38:33Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T02:38:48Z",
          "comments": []
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6akRKf",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "OR13",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-04T15:16:32Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T15:16:32Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 6,
              "body": "You might consider adding some override here, incase the existing change controller is not responsive.",
              "createdAt": "2025-02-04T15:16:32Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T15:16:32Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6aklKo",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "OR13",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-04T15:44:03Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-04T15:44:03Z",
          "comments": []
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6a-8mK",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "brentzundel",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-06T22:41:01Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-06T22:41:02Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 24,
              "body": "Since the above language restricts structured suffixes to a single '+', perhaps this line can be removed entirely?\r\n\r\n```suggestion\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-02-06T22:41:02Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-02-06T22:41:02Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6gkMAT",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:19:58Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:19:58Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 6,
              "body": "This (power to deny given to first registrant) always worried me too.\r\n",
              "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:19:58Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:20:23Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6gkNgs",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "bc-pi",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "CHANGES_REQUESTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:21:55Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:23:51Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 4,
              "body": "This is text that I was explicitly objecting to at the previous in-person meeting and that I was under the impression that the author of this PR agreed as did at least one of the DEs. ",
              "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:21:55Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:23:51Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6gkP39",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "bc-pi",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:25:00Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:25:00Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 4,
              "body": "https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/121/materials/minutes-121-mediaman-202411051800-01",
              "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:25:00Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:25:00Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6gk51w",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "bc-pi",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T11:01:16Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T11:01:17Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 4,
              "body": "https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/media-types/0uFNmOANPD-vECTWzsampRvKGtc/ \r\nhttps://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/media-types/gipt2Qv0uKw2ZBN97Jo4Mddnw_I/\r\nhttps://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/media-types/eM5ljPWq_fFaz9Mrt-vBHJi8fXE/\r\n\r\nI don't remember and/or can't find at the moment all the right conversations. But I am questioning the cost/value of such participation at all. ",
              "createdAt": "2025-03-18T11:01:17Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T11:01:17Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6gk7O7",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "bc-pi",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T11:02:05Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T11:02:05Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 6,
              "body": "this too https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/14/files#r2000685271",
              "createdAt": "2025-03-18T11:02:05Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T11:02:05Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6heJbZ",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "60d8027"
          },
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-24T03:36:53Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-24T03:36:54Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 6,
              "body": "@OR13 could you open that as a separate issue?",
              "createdAt": "2025-03-24T03:36:54Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-03-24T03:36:54Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 17,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6NE0Vx",
      "title": "Clean-up for \"additional information\"",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/17",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "polx",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Following https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/issues/5 this commit changes the additional information to:\r\n- remove the Macintosh 4-byte identifiers (not in use since decades) and\r\n- replaces them by the optional inclusion of clipboard flavour names",
      "createdAt": "2025-03-02T21:11:50Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-03-24T18:31:38Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "e2bd713adeab499df3c002ce91fec97d6226fd31",
      "headRepository": "polx/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "patch-1",
      "headRefOid": "64fcb73b69604c1f9fb5cd318c8f550621c2a523",
      "closedAt": "2025-03-18T10:24:55Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-03-18T10:24:55Z",
      "mergedBy": "alvestrand",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "5401c0197a693a0dc94d341a0d9cf58916d1646f"
      },
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mnot",
          "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
          "body": "> Create a corresponding issue, please.\r\n\r\nnever mind...",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-04T06:33:33Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-04T06:36:40Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Discussion in Bangkok: Perfectly reasonable to do, worry about whether backfill can be done for older types.\r\nWe would like to put in stuff that might be in use for other platforms (iOS, Android) if they exist and are different.\r\n\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:23:53Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:24:49Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "CxRes",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "body": "Should we open a new issue for backfills?",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-24T13:12:57Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-24T13:12:57Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Yes, do that in the \"procedures\" repo, which is intended for procedural issues that do not involve changes to 6838bis.\r\n",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-24T17:44:44Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-24T17:44:44Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "polx",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Issue [#7 of procedures](https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/procedures/issues/7) is opened. Thanks.",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-24T18:31:37Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-24T18:31:37Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6gRhNf",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "e6b5b93"
          },
          "author": "alvestrand",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-17T01:42:47Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-17T01:42:48Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 34,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\n* Windows clipboard name (a string), if it makes sense to exchange media of this type through user-triggered exchange mechanisms such as copy-and-paste or drag-and-drop on Microsoft Windows and related platforms (see {{windowsClipboardNames}} for definitions and syntax).\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-03-17T01:42:47Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-03-17T01:42:48Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6gkOfH",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "64fcb73"
          },
          "author": "aj-stein",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-03-18T10:23:15Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-03-18T10:23:15Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 30,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6WmlfO",
      "title": "Draft reorg",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/30",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-18T06:46:26Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-18T22:35:52Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "50e14115962cda66dc8e5a5a7cf1b1fa3cbd88ad",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "reorg",
      "headRefOid": "afa4dd9100c645ae096d2e33021956dcd31621af",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-18T22:35:51Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-05-18T22:35:51Z",
      "mergedBy": "mnot",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "385a8c323c44c9a350420fc6ab67448042dd32b3"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 34,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6XJB_o",
      "title": "Remove some extraneous 2119 terms",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/34",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "For #26",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-22T00:34:37Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T03:37:59Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "cc03f4653d2c5afa7f1086a9229b72f83c989f3c",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "mnot/26",
      "headRefOid": "3603d24b9a6590f86a525b4cd74324317eea9853",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 35,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6Xs21T",
      "title": "Mnot/structured suffix",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/35",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-27T02:39:25Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-06T19:58:47Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "cc03f4653d2c5afa7f1086a9229b72f83c989f3c",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "mnot/structured-suffix",
      "headRefOid": "e518a819310511c78d9059e78b0b26997923f8b5",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-06T19:58:46Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-06-06T19:58:46Z",
      "mergedBy": "mnot",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "f009c54ea568b55b4a58b89f33bbacf120d20338"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6rHeMV",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "e518a81"
          },
          "author": "OR13",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T12:26:43Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T12:26:43Z",
          "comments": []
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMdBaOc6rPM7H",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "e518a81"
          },
          "author": "brentzundel",
          "authorAssociation": "NONE",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T22:31:51Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T22:31:51Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 36,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6Xs6Yo",
      "title": "Remove top-level type definitions",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/36",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Fixes #29.",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-27T02:52:53Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-08T05:02:22Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "cc03f4653d2c5afa7f1086a9229b72f83c989f3c",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "mnot/29",
      "headRefOid": "5bd71880a16590c1a16d0ff3b794f1d3db503684",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 37,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6Xs8gh",
      "title": "IETF standards' controller is the IESG.",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/37",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Fixes #9.",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-27T02:58:54Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T03:39:07Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "cc03f4653d2c5afa7f1086a9229b72f83c989f3c",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "mnot/9",
      "headRefOid": "60a7b58328d681e893fdd579d005c95d8a941aa1",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 39,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMdBaOc6XtCNJ",
      "title": "Adjust grandfathering to account for community process",
      "url": "https://github.com/ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis/pull/39",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mnot",
      "authorAssociation": "COLLABORATOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Fixes #33.",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-27T03:19:58Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T03:39:20Z",
      "baseRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "cc03f4653d2c5afa7f1086a9229b72f83c989f3c",
      "headRepository": "ietf-wg-mediaman/6838bis",
      "headRefName": "mnot/33",
      "headRefOid": "e6dee9f5d2eca7e808784cdac409e07695f3dba6",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    }
  ]
}